James 4:17
If anyone, then, knows the good they ought to do ( even for one second ) and doesn’t do it, it is sin for them.

Genesis 1:7
And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament: and it was so

Genesis 1:20
And God said, Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving creature that hath life, and fowl that may fly above the earth in the open firmament of heaven

Leviticus 17:11
For the life of the flesh is in the blood

Deuteronomy 28:13
And the LORD shall make you the head, and not the tail; and you shall be above only, and you shall not be beneath; if that you hearken unto the commandments of the LORD your God, which I command you this day, to observe and to do them

2 kings 19:35
<span style="background-color:#ffff00;">That night the angel of the Lord went out and put to death a hundred and eighty-five thousand men in the Assyrian camp. When the people got up the next morning—there were all the dead bodies!</span>

Proverbs 27:17
As iron sharpens iron, so a friend sharpens a friend

Psalm 30:5
For his anger lasts only a moment, but his favor lasts a lifetime; weeping may stay for the night, but rejoicing comes in the morning.

Psalm 37:4
Delight yourself in the LORD and he will give you the desires of your heart

Psalm 37:6
He will make your innocence radiate like the dawn, and the justice of your cause will shine like the noonday sun.

Psalm 45:7 / Hebrews 1:9
You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness; therefore God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness beyond your companions.”

Psalm 112:6-8
Surely he will never be shaken;a righteous man will be remembered forever. 
He will have no fear of bad news;his heart is steadfast, trusting in the Lord. 
His heart is secure, he will have no fear

Psalm 126:5
Those who sow in tears shall reap with shouts of joy!

Psalm 139:17-18
How precious to me are your thoughts, O God!How vast is the sum of them! Were I to count them,they would outnumber the grains of sand.
When I awake,I am still with you.

Proverbs 3:24
when you lie down, you will not be afraid;when you lie down, your sleep will be sweet. 
Have no fear of sudden disasteror of the ruin that overtakes the wicked, 
for the Lord will be your confidenceand will keep your foot from being snared.

Proverbs 13:22
A good man leaves an inheritance for his children's children, but a sinner's wealth is stored up for the righteous.

Proverbs 14:12
There is a way that seems right to a man, but in the end it leads to death

Ecclesiastes 5:10
Whoever loves money never has enough;    whoever loves wealth is never satisfied with their income.    This too is meaningless.

Isaiah 40:22
God sits above the circle of the earth. The people below seem like grasshoppers to him!

Isaiah 43:1-2
Fear not, for I have redeemed you;I have summoned you by name; you are mine. When you pass through the waters,I will be with you;and when you pass through the rivers,they will not sweep over you.When you walk through the fire,you will not be burned;the flames will not set you ablaze.

Isaiah 53:2
For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of a dry ground: he hath no form nor comeliness; and when we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him.

Isaiah 55:10-11
For as the rain comes down, and the snow from heaven, and returns not there, but waters the earth, and makes it bring forth and bud, that it may give seed to the sower, and bread to the eater:
So shall my word be that goes forth out of my mouth: it shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing for which I sent it.

Jeremiah 1:7-8
The Lord replied, “Don’t say, ‘I’m too young,’ for you must go wherever I send you and say whatever I tell you. And don’t be afraid of the people, for I will be with you and will protect you

Malachi 2:16
"For I hate divorce!" says the LORD, the God of Israel. "To divorce your wife is to overwhelm her with cruelty," says the LORD of Heaven's Armies. "So guard your heart; do not be unfaithful to your wife."

Matthew 5:3-11
PMMHMPPPY
“Blessed are the poor in spirit,for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Blessed are those who mourn,for they will be comforted.
Blessed are the meek,for they will inherit the earth.
Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness,for they will be filled.
Blessed are the merciful,for they will be shown mercy.
Blessed are the pure in heart,for they will see God.
Blessed are the peacemakers,for they will be called children of God.
Blessed are those who are persecuted because of righteousness,for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
“Blessed are you when people insult you, persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me.
Rejoice and be glad, because great is your reward in heaven, for in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you.

Matthew 5:13-15
“You are the salt of the earth. But if the salt loses its saltiness, how can it be made salty again? It is no longer good for anything, except to be thrown out and trampled underfoot.
“You are the light of the world. A town built on a hill cannot be hidden. 15Neither do people light a lamp and put it under a bowl. Instead they put it on its stand, and it gives light to everyone in the house.

Matthew 5:16
In the same way, let your light shine before others, that they may see your good deeds and glorify your Father in heaven.

Matthew 5:27-28
“You have heard that it was said, ‘You shall not commit adultery.’
But I tell you that anyone who looks at a woman lustfully has already committed adultery with her in his heart.

Matthew 5:32
But I tell you that anyone who divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, makes her the victim of adultery, and anyone who marries a divorced woman commits adultery.

Matthew 5:48
Be perfect, therefore, as your heavenly Father is perfect.

Matthew 6:19-21
Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. 
But store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where moth and rust do not destroy, and where thieves do not break in and steal. 
For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.

Matthew 6:22 - 23
“The eye is the lamp of the body. If your eyes are good, your whole body will be full of light.
But if your eyes are bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light within you is darkness, how great is that darkness!

Matthew 6:33
But seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things will be given to you as well.

Luke 3:11
John answered, "The man with two tunics should share with him who has none, and the one who has food should do the same."

John 4:37 - 38
One sows, and another reaps.
I sent you to reap that on which you bestowed no labor: other men labored, and you are entered into their labors

John 10:10
I came that they may have life and have it abundantly

Romans 3:23
for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God

Romans 8:32
He that spared not his own Son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things?

Romans 8:38-39
For I am convinced that neither death nor life, neither angels nor demons,m neither the present nor the future, nor any powers, 
neither height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord.
DLADPFPHDA

Romans 10:9
if you confess with your mouth, "Jesus is Lord," and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved

Romans 14:1
Accept the one whose faith is weak without quarreling over disputable matters.

1 Corinthians 3:6-8
I have planted, Apollos watered; but God gave the increase.
So then neither is he that plants anything, neither he that waters; but God that gives the increase.
Now he that plants and he that waters are one: and every man shall receive his own reward according to his own labor.

1 Corinthians 6:9-11
Or do you not know that the unrighteousb will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived: neither the sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality,
nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. 
And such were some of you. But you were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God
SIAHTGDRS

1 Corinthians 10:23
You say, "I am allowed to do anything"--but not everything is good for you. You say, "I am allowed to do anything"--but not everything is beneficial.

1 Corinthians 13:4-8
Love is patient, love is kind. It does not envy, it does not boast, it is not proud. 
It is not rude, it is not self-seeking, it is not easily angered, it keeps no record of wrongs. 
Love does not delight in evil but rejoices with the truth. 
It always protects, always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres. 
Love never fails

1 Corinthians 15:33
Do not be misled: "Bad company corrupts good character."

2 Corinthians 3:17
<span style="background-color:#ffff00;">Now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom.</span>

2 Corinthians 10:5
<span style="background-color:#ffff00;">Casting down imaginations, and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ</span>

Galatians 5:22
But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, 
gentleness and self-control. Against such things there is no law.

Galatians 6:1
Brothers and sisters, if someone is caught in a sin, you who live by the Spirit should restore that person gently. But watch yourselves, or you also may be tempted.

Ephesians 3:20
Now to him who is able to do immeasurably more than all we ask or imagine, according to his power that is at work within us

Ephesians 5:1
Imitate God, therefore, in everything you do, because you are his dear children.

Ephesians 6:12 - 13
For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms.
 Therefore put on the full armor of God, so that when the day of evil comes, you may be able to stand your ground, and after you have done everything, to stand.

Ephesians 6:14-17
Stand firm then, with the belt of truth buckled around your waist, with the breastplate of righteousness in place,
 and with your feet fitted with the readiness that comes from the gospel of peace.
 In addition to all this, take up the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the flaming arrows of the evil one.
 Take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God.

Philipians 1:6
He who began a good work in you will carry it on to completion until the day of Christ Jesus.

Philippians 4:6
not be anxious about anything, but in everything, by prayer and petition, with thanksgiving, present your requests to God.

Philippians 4:7
the peace of God, which transcends all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus.

Philippians 4:8
Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is noble, whatever is right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is admirable—if anything is excellent or praiseworthy—think about such things.

Philippians 4:11
I have learned to be content whatever the circumstances.

1 Timothy 6:4-5
they are conceited and understand nothing. They have an unhealthy interest in controversies and quarrels about words that result in envy, strife, malicious talk, evil suspicions 
 and constant friction between people of corrupt mind, who have been robbed of the truth and who think that godliness is a means to financial gain.

1 Timothy 6:6
godliness with contentment is great gain

1 Timothy 6:7-8
we brought nothing into the world, and we can take nothing out of it. 
But if we have food and clothing, we will be content with that.

1 Timothy 6:9-10
Those who want to get rich fall into temptation and a trap and into many foolish and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction.
 For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil. Some people, eager for money, have wandered from the faith and pierced themselves with many griefs.

1 Timothy 6:17-19
Command those who are rich in this present world not to be arrogant nor to put their hope in wealth, which is so uncertain, but to put their hope in God, who richly provides us with everything for our enjoyment. 
Command them to do good, to be rich in good deeds, and to be generous and willing to share. 
In this way they will lay up treasure for themselves as a firm foundation for the coming age, so that they may take hold of the life that is truly life.

2 Timothy 1:7
<span style="background-color:#ffff00;">for God gave us a spirit not of fear but of power and love and self-control</span>

2 Timothy 2:14 - 15
<span style="background-color:#ffff00;">Warn them before God against quarreling about wordsit is of no value, and only ruins those who listen.</span>
<span style="background-color:#ffff00;"> Do your best to present yourself to God as one approved, a worker who does not need to be ashamed and who correctly handles the word of truth.</span>

2 Timothy 2:23 - 24
<span style="background-color:#ffff00;">Don’t have anything to do with foolish and stupid arguments, because you know they produce quarrels. </span>
<span style="background-color:#ffff00;"> And the Lord’s servant must not be quarrelsome but must be kind to everyone, able to teach, not resentful.</span>

2 Timothy 2:25
<span style="background-color:#ffff00;">GENTLY INSTRUCT those who oppose the truth. Perhaps God will change those people’s hearts, and they will learn the truth</span>

2 Timothy 3:16-17
<span style="background-color:#ffff00;">All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness: </span>
<span style="background-color:#ffff00;">That the man of God may be perfect, throughly furnished unto all good works.</span>

Titus 1:15
To the pure, all things are pure, but to those who are corrupted and do not believe, nothing is pure. In fact, both their minds and consciences are corrupted.

Titus 2:10
in every way they will make the teaching about God our Savior attractive

Hebrews 4:15
For we do not have a high priest who is unable to empathize with our weaknesses, but we have one who has been tempted in every way, just as we are--yet he did not sin.

Hebrews 13:5-6
Keep your lives free from the love of money and be content with what you have, because God has said,“Never will I leave you;never will I forsake you.”
So we say with confidence,“The Lord is my helper; I will not be afraid.What can man do to me?

James 1:5
If any of you lacks wisdom, he should ask God, who gives generously to all without finding fault, and it will be given to him

James 2:10
For whoever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles at just one point is guilty of breaking all of it.

1 Peter 3:15
But in your hearts revere Christ as Lord. Always be prepared to give an answer to everyone who asks you to give the reason for the hope that you have. But do this with gentleness and respect,

2 Peter 2:19
<span style="background-color:#ffff00;">They promise them freedom, while they themselves are slaves of depravity—for “people are slaves to whatever has mastered them.”</span>

1 John 2:15-17
Do not love the world or anything in the world.
 If anyone loves the world, love for the Father is not in them.
 For everything in the world—the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life—comes not from the Father but from the world. 
 The world and its desires pass away, but whoever does the will of God lives forever.

Revelation 3:20
, I stand at the door, and knock: if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me

Isaiah 54:17
No weapon formed against you shall prosper and you will refute every tongue that accuses you.

1 John 4:4
The one who is in you is greater than the one who is in the world.

Ephesians 5:11
Have nothing to do with the fruitless deeds of darkness but rather expose them.

Ephesians 6:7-8
Serve wholeheartedly as if serving the Lord, not people, because you know that the Lord will reward each one for whatever good they do.

Isaiah 52:12
The Lord will go before you. The God of Israel will be your rear guard.

1 John 3:17
If anyone has material possessions and sees a brother or sister in need but has no pity on them how can the love of God be in that person? Dear children let us not love with words or speech but with actions and in truth.

Ephesians 2:8-9
For it is by grace you have been saved, through faith, and this is not from yourselves. It is the gift of God, not by works, so that no one can boast.

Romans 8:28
And we know that in all things God works for the good of those who love him, who have been called according to his purpose.

Jeremiah 29:11
For I know the plans I have for you," declares the LORD, "plans to prosper you and not to harm you, plans to give you hope and a future.

Deuteronomy 32:4
He is the Rock, his work is perfect: for all his ways are judgment: a God of truth and without iniquity, just and right is he.

Psalm 103:12
As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us.

Micah 7:19
He will again have compassion on us, and will subdue our iniquities. You will cast all our sins into the depths of the sea.

Isaiah 1:18
Come now, and let us reason together, saith the LORD: though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool.

1 John 1:9
If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.

Luke 6:46
So why do you keep calling me 'Lord, Lord!' when you don't do what I say?

John 3:16
For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life.

John 11:35
Jesus wept.

Philipians 4:13
I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me.

Psalm 118:24
This is the day which the LORD hath made; we will rejoice and be glad in it.

Mark 9:23
Jesus said unto him, If thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believeth.

Hebrews 11:1
Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen.

Proverbs 20:1
Wine is a mocker, strong drink a brawler, and whoever is led astray by it is not wise.

Matthew 19:26
Jesus looked at them and said, "With man this is impossible, but with God all things are possible."

Proverbs 23:29-30
Who has woe? Who has sorrow? Who has strife? Who has complaining? Who has wounds without cause? Who has redness of eyes? Those who tarry long over wine; those who go to try mixed wine.

Proverbs 31:9
Open your mouth, judge righteously, defend the rights of the poor and the needy.

Galatians 6:7
Do not be deceived: God cannot be mocked. A man reaps what he sows.

Matthew 7:16 - 20
By their fruit you will recognize them. Do people pick grapes from thornbushes, or figs from thistles? Likewise, every good tree bears good fruit, but a bad tree bears bad fruit. A good tree cannot bear bad fruit, and a bad tree cannot bear good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Thus, by their fruit you will recognize them.

2 Chronicles 7:14
<span style="background-color:#ffff00;">If my people who are called by my name humble themselves, and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and heal their land.</span>

Micah 6:8
He has told you, O man, what is good; and what does the Lord require of you but to do justice, and to love kindness, and to walk humbly with your God?

John 8:34
Jesus answered them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who commits sin is a slave to sin.

James 4:8
Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded.

Ephesians 5:25
Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her,

Proverbs 27:1-2
Do not boast about tomorrow, for you do not know what a day may bring.  Let someone else praise you, and not your own mouth; an outsider, and not your own lips.

Romans 7:19-20
For I do not do the good I want to do, but the evil I do not want to do—this I keep on doing. Now if I do what I do not want to do, it is no longer I who do it, but it is sin living in me that does it.

Psalms 1:3 ESV
He is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its fruit in its season, and its leaf does not wither. In all that he does, he prospers.

Isaiah 64:6 NIV
We have all become like one who is unclean, and all our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment. We all fade like a leaf, and our iniquities, like the wind, take us away.

Isaiah 35:4 ESV
Say to those who have an anxious heart, "Be strong; fear not! Behold, your God will come with vengeance, with the recompense of God. He will come and save you."

Isaiah 26:3 ESV
You keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on you, because he trusts in you.

Isaiah 7:9 ESV
And the head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is the son of Remaliah. If you are not firm in faith, you will not be firm at all.'"

Psalms 94:1 ESV
O Lord , God of vengeance, O God of vengeance, shine forth!

1 John 4:19 ESV
We love because he first loved us.

Psalms 55:22 ESV
Cast your burden on the Lord , and he will sustain you; he will never permit the righteous to be moved.

2 Peter 2:22 ESV
<span style="background-color:#ffff00;">What the true proverb says has happened to them: "The dog returns to its own vomit, and the sow, after washing herself, returns to wallow in the mire."</span>

2 Peter 1:21 ESV
<span style="background-color:#ffff00;">For no prophecy was ever produced by the will of man, but men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit.</span>

1 Peter 5:7 ESV
casting all your anxieties on him, because he cares for you.

Revelation 20:15 ESV
And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire.

Revelation 19:13 ESV
He is clothed in a robe dipped in blood, and the name by which he is called is The Word of God.

Revelation 3:16 ESV
So, because you are lukewarm, and neither hot nor cold, I will spit you out of my mouth.

Psalms 90:17 ESV
Let the favor of the Lord our God be upon us, and establish the work of our hands upon us; yes, establish the work of our hands!

Psalms 90:4 ESV
For a thousand years in your sight are but as yesterday when it is past, or as a watch in the night.

Ezekiel 22:30 NIV
And I sought for a man among them who should build up the wall and stand in the breach before me for the land, that I should not destroy it, but I found none.

The Song of Solomon 6:3 ESV
I am my beloved's and my beloved is mine; he grazes among the lilies.

Psalms 39:1 ESV
I said, "I will guard my ways, that I may not sin with my tongue; I will guard my mouth with a muzzle, so long as the wicked are in my presence."

Jeremiah 31:25 ESV
For I will satisfy the weary soul, and every languishing soul I will replenish."

Jeremiah 31:16 ESV
Thus says the Lord : "Keep your voice from weeping, and your eyes from tears, for 
<span style="background-color:#00ffff;">ther3 1s 1 rewar6 for your work,</span> 
declares the Lord , and they shall come back from the land of the enemy.

Jeremiah 17:10
( my eyes are open to the children of men 32:19 ) "I the Lord search the heart and test the mind ,to give every man according to his ways,according to the fruit of his deeds."

Jeremiah 14:7 ESV
"Though our iniquities testify against us, act, O Lord , for your name's sake; for our backslidings are many; we have sinned against you.

Jeremiah 9:24 ESV
but let him who boasts boast in this, that he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord who practices steadfast love, justice, and righteousness in the earth. For in these things I delight, declares the Lord ."

Jeremiah 1:5 NIV
"Before I formed you in the womb I knew you, and before you were born I consecrated you; I appointed you a prophet to the nations."

John 14:6 ESV
Jesus said to him, "I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me.

John 13:35 ESV
By this all people will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another."

John 6:26
Jesus answered them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, you are seeking me, not because you saw signs, but because you ate your fill of the loaves.

Ecclesiastes 7:20 ESV
Surely there is not a righteous man on earth who does good and never sins.

Ecclesiastes 5:7 ESV
For when dreams increase and words grow many, there is vanity; but God is the one you must fear.

Ecclesiastes 4:12 ESV
And though a man might prevail against one who is alone, two will withstand him—a threefold cord is not quickly broken.

John 1:12
Yet to all who did receive him, to those who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God

James 5:12 ESV
But above all, my brothers, do not swear, either by heaven or by earth or by any other oath, but let your "yes" be yes and your "no" be no, so that you may not fall under condemnation.

James 1:15 ESV
Then desire when it has conceived gives birth to sin, and sin when it is fully grown brings forth death.

Titus 1:6 ESV
if anyone is above reproach, the husband of one wife, and his children are believers and not open to the charge of debauchery or insubordination.

Amos 2:9 ESV
"Yet it was I who destroyed the Amorite before them, whose height was like the height of the cedars and who was as strong as the oaks; I destroyed his fruit above and his roots beneath.

Joel 2:25 ESV
I will restore to you the years that the swarming locust has eaten, the hopper, the destroyer, and the cutter, my great army, which I sent among you.

1 Timothy 5:18
For the Scripture says, "You shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out the grain," and, "The laborer deserves his wages."

Matthew 11:28 - 30
Come to Me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest. Take My yoke upon you and learn from Me; for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For My yoke is easy and My burden is light.”

Hebrews 4:12
For the word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and of spirit, of joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart.

Psalms 7:10
My shield is with God, who saves the upright in heart.

Psalm 32:8
I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go; I will counsel you with my loving eye on you

Psalm 119:105
Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path.

Zephaniah 3:17
The LORD your God is in your midst, a mighty one who will save; he will rejoice over you with gladness; he will quiet you by his love; he will exult over you with loud singing.

Deuteronomy 6:4-5
Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God is one Lord:
 And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might

James 5:16
Therefore confess your sins to each other and pray for each other so that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous person is powerful and effective.

Ezekiel 43:2
I saw the glory of the God of Israel coming from the east. His voice was like the roar of rushing waters, and the land was radiant with his glory.

Revelation 1:13-15
13 and in the midst of the lampstands one like a son of man, clothed with a long robe and with a golden sash around his chest. 14 The hairs of his head were white, like white wool, like snow. His eyes were like a flame of fire, 15 his feet were like burnished bronze, refined in a furnace, and his voice was like the roar of many waters.

Romans 12:19
Dear friends, never take revenge. Leave that to the righteous anger of God. For the Scriptures say, “I will take revenge; I will pay them back,” says the LORD.

2 Corinthians 5:17
<span style="background-color:#ffff00;">Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away; behold, the new has come</span>.

Psalms 34:17
when the righteous cry for help, the LORD hears and delivers them out of all their troubles.

Genesis 50:20
You intended to harm me, but God intended it for good to accomplish what is now being done, the saving of many lives.

James 3:1
Not many of you should become teachers, my fellow believers, because you know that we who teach will be judged more strictly.

Psalm 139:23-24
Search me, God, and know my heart; test me and know my anxious thoughts. See if there is any offensive way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting.

Romans 6:2
By no means! We are those who have died to sin; how can we live in it any longer?

John 3:19-21
This is the verdict: Light has come into the world, but people loved darkness instead of light because their deeds were evil. Everyone who does evil hates the light, and will not come into the light for fear that their deeds will be exposed. But whoever lives by the truth comes into the light, so that it may be seen plainly that what they have done has been done in the sight of God.

Matthew 7:1
“Do not judge others, and you will not be judged."

John 14:15-24
If you love me, you will keep my commandments. Whoever has My commandments and keeps them is the one who loves Me... If anyone loves Me, he will keep My word... Whoever does not love Me does not keep My words.

Psalm 138:8
The LORD will perfect that which concerneth me: thy mercy, O LORD, endureth for ever: forsake not the works of thine own hands.

Revelation 21:5
And he who was seated on the throne said, “Behold, I am making all things new.” Also he said, “Write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true.”

Matthew 24:35
Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will never pass away.

Matthew 28:19-20
Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, and teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. And surely I am with you always, to the very end of the age.

Psalm 119:11
I have hidden your word in my heart that I might not sin against you.

1 Corinthians 6:2-3
Or do you not know that the Lord’s people will judge the world? And if you are to judge the world, are you not competent to judge trivial cases? Do you not know that we will judge angels? How much more the things of this life?

Matthew 7:1-5
Do not judge, or you too will be judged. For in the same way you judge others, you will be judged, and with the measure you use, it will be measured to you. “Why do you look at the speck of sawdust in your brother’s eye and pay no attention to the plank in your own eye? How can you say to your brother, ‘Let me take the speck out of your eye,’ when all the time there is a plank in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the plank out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the speck from your brother’s eye.

John 7:24
Do not judge by appearances, but judge with right judgment.

Matthew 18:15-17
If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault, between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother. But if he does not listen, take one or two others along with you, that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses. If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. And if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector.

Proverbs 10:22
The blessing of the LORD makes rich, and he adds no sorrow with it.

Romans 8:1
Therefore, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus.

Psalms 48:14
That this is God, our God forever and ever. He will guide us forever.

Psalms 127:2
It is in vain that you rise up early and go late to rest, eating the bread of anxious toil; for he gives to his beloved sleep.

Psalms 125:2
As the mountains surround Jerusalem, so the LORD surrounds his people, from this time forth and forevermore.

2 Thessalonians 3:13
As for you, brothers, do not grow weary in doing good.

2 Thessalonians 3:10
For even when we were with you, we would give you this command: If anyone is not willing to work, let him not eat.

Psalm 46:1-3
God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore we will not fear though the earth gives way, though the mountains be moved into the heart of the sea, though its waters roar and foam, though the mountains tremble at its swelling.

Psalms 99:8
O LORD our God, you answered them; you were a forgiving God to them, but an avenger of their wrongdoings.

Psalms 20:4
May he grant you your heart's desire and fulfill all your plans!

Colossians 4:5-6
Walk in wisdom toward outsiders, making the best use of the time. Let your speech always be gracious, seasoned with salt, so that you may know how you ought to answer each person.

1 Samuel 2:7
The LORD makes poor and makes rich; he brings low and he exalts.

Ephesians 5:4
Let there be no filthiness nor foolish talk nor crude joking, which are out of place, but instead let there be thanksgiving.

Job 41:11
Who has first given to me, that I should repay him? Whatever is under the whole heaven is mine.

Psalms 91:7
A thousand may fall at your side, ten thousand at your right hand, but it will not come near you.

Proverbs 9:7
Whoever corrects a scoffer gets himself abuse, and he who reproves a wicked man incurs injury.

Psalms 119:114
You are my hiding place and my shield; I hope in your word.

Galatians 3:28
There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is no male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus.

Galatians 3:3
Are you so foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh?

Exodus 14:14
The LORD will fight for you, and you have only to be silent.

Isaiah 26:7
The path of the righteous is level; you make level the way of the righteous.

Psalms 43:1
Vindicate me, O God, and defend my cause against an ungodly people, from the deceitful and unjust man deliver me!

Psalms 5:12
For you bless the righteous, O LORD; you cover him with favor as with a shield.

Psalms 5:8
Lead me, O LORD, in your righteousness because of my enemies; make your way straight before me.

Proverbs 23:9
Do not speak in the hearing of a fool, for he will despise the good sense of your words.

Psalms 119:160
The sum of your word is truth, and every one of your righteous rules endures forever.

Proverbs 11:14
Where there is no guidance, a people falls, but in an abundance of counselors there is safety.

1 Peter 4:3-5
For the time that is past suffices for doing what the Gentiles want to do, living in sensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies, drinking parties, and lawless idolatry. With respect to this they are surprised when you do not join them in the same flood of debauchery, and they malign you; but they will give account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead.

John 8:11
She said, “No one, Lord.” And Jesus said to her, “Neither do I condemn you; go and sin no more.”

2 Peter 3:9
<span style="background-color:#ffff00;">The Lord is not slow in keeping his promise, as some understand slowness. Instead he is patient with you, not wanting anyone to perish, but everyone to come to repentance.</span>

2 Corinthians 12:9
<span style="background-color:#ffff00;">But he said to me, "My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness." Therefore I will boast all the more gladly about my weaknesses, so that Christ's power may rest on me.</span>

Ephesians 5:22
Wives, submit to your own husbands, as to the Lord.

1 Corinthians 14:34
Let your women keep silence in the churches: for it is not permitted unto them to speak; but they are commanded to be under obedience, as also saith the law.

1 Timothy 2:12
But I suffer not a woman to teach, nor to usurp authority over the man, but to be in silence.

Psalm 18:2
The LORD is my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer; my God, my strength, in whom I will trust; my buckler, and the horn of my salvation, and my high tower.

2 Corinthians 1:20
<span style="background-color:#ffff00;">For all the promises of God in Him are Yes, and in Him Amen, to the glory of God through us.</span>

Psalm 16:3
The godly people in the land are my true heroes! I take pleasure in them!

1 John 4:18
There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear. For fear has to do with punishment, and whoever fears has not been perfected in love.

Psalm 2:4
He who sits in the heavens shall laugh; The Lord shall hold them in derision.

Proverbs 11:30
The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life, and whoever captures souls is wise.

Romans 10:17
So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ

1 Corinthians 9:22
To the weak I became weak, that I might win the weak. I have become all things to all people, that by all means I might save some.

Matthew 7:6
Do not give dogs what is sacred; do not throw your pearls to pigs. If you do, they may trample them under their feet, and turn and tear you to pieces.

Acts 1:8
But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you; and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the ends of the earth."

Matthew 4:19
And he saith unto them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men.

Psalm 34:8
Oh, taste and see that the LORD is good; Blessed is the man who trusts in Him!

John 5:44
How can you believe, when you receive glory from one another and do not seek the glory that comes from the only God?

Proverbs 13:12
Hope deferred makes the heart sick, but a desire fulfilled is a tree of life.

John 8:32
And you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.”

Isaiah 30:15
This is what the Sovereign LORD, the Holy One of Israel, says: "In repentance and rest is your salvation, in quietness and trust is your strength, but you would have none of it.

1 Peter 1:23
For you have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable, through the living and enduring word of God.

Proverbs 17:28
Even a fool is counted wise when he holds his peace; When he shuts his lips, he is considered perceptive.

Proverbs 18:10
The name of the LORD is a strong tower; The righteous run to it and are safe.

Mark 12:29-31
29 Jesus answered, “The most important is, ‘Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is one. 30 And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all your strength.’ 31 The second is this: ‘You shall love your neighbor as yourself.’ There is no other commandment greater than these.”

Colossians 3:23
And whatever you do, do it heartily, as to the Lord and not to men,

Psalm 25:4-5
Shew me thy ways, O LORD; teach me thy paths

Romans 10:14
How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? and how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? and how shall they hear without a preacher?

1 Peter 4:8
Above all, love each other deeply, because love covers over a multitude of sins.

Matthew 5:18
For verily I say unto you, Till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled.

Matthew 7:14
Because strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it.

Matthew 12:11
He said to them, "If any of you has a sheep and it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will you not take hold of it and lift it out?

Exodus 31:13
“You are to speak to the people of Israel and say, ‘Above all you shall keep my Sabbaths, for this is a sign between me and you throughout your generations, that you may know that I, the LORD, sanctify you.

Luke 23:56
And they returned, and prepared spices and ointments; and rested the sabbath day according to the commandment.

Matthew 5:17
"Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them.

2 Corinthians 2:15-16
<span style="background-color:#ffff00;">For we are the aroma of Christ to God among those who are being saved and among those who are perishing, 16 to one a fragrance from death to death, to the other a fragrance from life to life. Who is sufficient for these things?</span>

1 John 4:5-6
They are from the world and therefore speak from the viewpoint of the world, and the world listens to them. We are from God, and whoever knows God listens to us; but whoever is not from God does not listen to us. This is how we recognize the Spirit of truth and the spirit of falsehood.

1 Corinthians 14:33
For God is not a God of disorder but of peace as in all the congregations of the Lord’s people.

1 Timothy 2:3-4
This is good, and pleases God our Savior, who wants all people to be saved and to come to a knowledge of the truth.

Ephesians 4:14
Then we will no longer be immature like children. We won’t be tossed and blown about by every wind of new teaching. We will not be influenced when people try to trick us with lies so clever they sound like the truth.

Psalm 37:23-24
The Lord makes firm the steps of the one who delights in him; though he may stumble, he will not fall, for the Lord upholds him with his hand.

Psalm 16:11
You make known to me the path of life; you will fill me with joy in your presence, with eternal pleasures at your right hand.

1 John 1:7
But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus, his Son, purifies us from all sin.

Luke 16:17
And it is easier for heaven and earth to pass, than one tittle of the law to fail.

Galatians 6:9
Let us not become weary in doing good, for at the proper time we will reap a harvest if we do not give up.

Rom 15:13
May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace as you trust in him, so that you may overflow with hope by the power of the Holy Spirit.

Psalm 34:19
Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the LORD delivers him out of them all.

Numbers 6:24-26
The Lord bless you and keep you; the Lord make his face shine on you and be gracious to you; the Lord turn his face toward you and give you peace.

John 15:2
Every branch in me that does not bear fruit he takes away, and every branch that does bear fruit he prunes, that it may bear more fruit.

1 John 5:12
He that hath the Son hath life; and he that hath not the Son of God hath not life.

John 16:13
When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth, for he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears he will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come.

2 Chronicles 16:9
<span style="background-color:#ffff00;">the eyes of the LORD run to and fro throughout the whole earth, to show Himself strong in the behalf of them whose heart is perfect toward Him…”</span>

Luke 6:37
Judge not, and ye shall not be judged: condemn not, and ye shall not be condemned: forgive, and ye shall be forgiven:

Psalm 82:6-7
I have said, Ye are gods; and all of you are children of the most High. But ye shall die like men, and fall like one of the princes.

Psalm 82:3-4
Defend the weak and the fatherless; uphold the cause of the poor and the oppressed. Rescue the weak and the needy; deliver them from the hand of the wicked.

Matthew 22:29
"You are wrong because you don't know the Scriptures or the power of God"

Mark 16:15
He said to them, “Go into all the world and preach the gospel to all creation.

1 Thessalonians 5:16-18
Rejoice evermore. Pray without ceasing. In every thing give thanks: for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you.

Romans 12:2
Do not conform to the pattern of this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Then you will be able to test and approve what God’s will is—his good, pleasing and perfect will.

Psalm 37:25
I have been young, and now am old, yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken or his children begging for bread.

Joshua 17:1
because he was a man of war therefore he was given Gilead

Isaiah 55:8-9
For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the LORD. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts.

Joshua‬ ‭23‬:‭14
And now I am about to go the way of all the earth, and you know in your hearts and souls, all of you, that not one word has failed of all the good things that the Lord your God promised concerning you. All have come to pass for you; not one of them has failed.

2 Timothy 2:13
If we are unfaithful, he remains faithful, for he cannot deny who he is.

Ephesians 2:10
For we are God’s handiwork, created in Christ Jesus to do good works, which God prepared in advance for us to do.
‭‭
Joshua 24:15
And if it seems evil to you to serve the LORD, choose for yourselves this day whom you will serve, whether the gods which your fathers served that were on the other side of the River, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you dwell. But as for me and my house, we will serve the LORD.”

John 10:27
My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me.

‭‭Deuteronomy‬ ‭8‬:‭2‬ ‭
And you shall remember the whole way that the Lord your God has led you these forty years in the wilderness, that he might humble you, testing you to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep his commandments or not.

1 Corinthians 2:9
But as it is written, Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him.

‭‭Deuteronomy‬ ‭7‬:‭9‬ ‭
Know therefore that the Lord your God is God, the faithful God who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his commandments, to a thousand generations

Psalm 33:22
Let thy mercy, O LORD, be upon us, According as we hope in thee.

Psalm 127:1
A song of ascents. Of Solomon. Unless the LORD builds the house, the builders labor in vain. Unless the LORD watches over the city, the guards stand watch in vain.

Isaiah 53:5
But He was wounded for our transgressions, He was bruised for our iniquities; The chastisement for our peace was upon Him, And by His stripes we are healed.

John 3:34
For the one whom God has sent speaks the words of God, for God gives the Spirit without limit.


John 1:1
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.

John 1:14
The Word became flesh and made His dwelling among us.b We have seen His glory, the glory of the one and only Sonc from the Father, full of grace and truth.

1 Corinthians 14:2
For one who speaks in a tongue speaks not to men but to God; for no one understands him, but he utters mysteries in the Spirit.

Psalm 37:12-13
The wicked scheme against the righteous and gnash their teeth at them, but the Lord laughs, seeing that their day is coming.

Mark 11:24
Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask for in prayer, believe that you have received it, and it will be yours.

1 Corinthians 2:11
For who knows a person’s thoughts except their own spirit within them? In the same way no one knows the thoughts of God except the Spirit of God.

Romans 8:11
And if the Spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead is living in you, he who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies because of his Spirit who lives in you.

Mark 4:26-29
He also said, “This is what the kingdom of God is like. A man scatters seed on the ground.  Night and day, whether he sleeps or gets up, the seed sprouts and grows, though he does not know how. All by itself the soil produces grain—first the stalk, then the head, then the full kernel in the head. As soon as the grain is ripe, he puts the sickle to it, because the harvest has come.”

Philipians 4:19
And my God will supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.

Isaiah  22:22
I will place on his shoulder the key to the house of David; what he opens no one can shut, and what he shuts no one can open.

John 15:5
“I am the vine; you are the branches. If you remain in me and I in you, you will bear much fruit; apart from me you can do nothing.

Hosea 10:12
Sow for yourselves righteousness; reap steadfast love; break up your fallow ground, for it is the time to seek the LORD, that he may come and rain righteousness upon you.

Isaiah 61:3
To appoint unto them that mourn in Zion, to give unto them beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness; that they might be called trees of righteousness, the planting of the LORD, that he might be glorified.

Colossians 2:16
Therefore do not let anyone judge you by what you eat or drink, or with regard to a religious festival, a New Moon celebration or a Sabbath day.

Exodus 14:15
Then the LORD said to Moses, “Why are you crying out to me? Tell the Israelites to move on"

Psalm 63:6
On my bed I remember you; I think of you through the watches of the night.

Proverbs 11:28
He who leans on and trusts in and is confident in his riches will fall, But the righteous [who trust in God’s provision] will flourish like a green leaf.

Revelation 3:19
Those whom I love I rebuke and discipline. So be earnest and repent.

1 Corinthians 2:9
But as it is written, Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him.

Proverbs 11:24
One gives freely, yet grows all the richer; another withholds what he should give, and only suffers want

Deuteronomy 1:11
May the LORD, the God of your ancestors, increase you a thousand times and bless you as he has promised!


